The programs in this language are called scripts. They can be written right in a web page’s HTML and run automatically as the page loads.
Javascript was created to make 'web pages alive'.
It not only run in the browser but also on server, actually on any device having 'JS Engine'.
Browser has embedded engine called 'Js Virtual Machine'. chrome has V8.

how engine works------------------ ?
The engine (embedded if it’s a browser) reads (“parses”) the script.
Then it converts (“compiles”) the script to machine code.
And then the machine code runs, pretty fast.

JS capabilities depends on the environment on which it is running.
e.g : in browser JS is able to 
1) adding new HTML page, modifying it(content and styles).
2) event handling, mouse click, mouse hover, key presses.
3) send requests to remote server. download files, upload files.
4) remember the data on client side (local storage)
5) ask questions to visitors, display messages.

limitation to JS is limited to protect user's safety.
JS on webpage may not read/write/copy/execute any arbitrary file on the hard disc.
(no direct access to Operating System functions).
file is accessed only through <input> or 'dropping' (if provided).
camera, microphone ... are required user's persission to enable them.
(js enabled webpage will not sneakily enable these and send data to another site)
if any webpage is opened, then only this will be open.

uniqueness of JS?
full integration with HTML/CSS.
simple things are done simply.
supported by all major browsers.

JavaScript is the only browser technology that combines these three things.
That said, JavaScript can be used to create servers, mobile applications, etc.

In the world of computer, there is only data. we can create,remove,modify the data.
data is stored into bits(in the form of 0,1).
there is lot / millions of data. a part of it is a value.
value could be of type (string, number, boolean, function).
we just invoke the value to use it. if i want to use a number i'll simply use it by creating it.

part of code that holds the value is called 'expression'. multiple expression make statement. program consist of many statements.

Operators ---------------------------
unary operator : operator acting on a single value is unary operator. e.g : 'typeof'
binary operator : operator taking 2 values is binary operator.
ternary operator : operator taking 3 values is ternary operator.

Statements--------------------------- :
commands that performs the actions.
we can add as many statements as we want, we can separate them by ;.
e.g : alert('Hello world') shows a alert on webpage.

in most cases, a new line implies a semicolon. but it is not always true.
e.g  : alert(3
+1+
2);

it'll show a alert having 6 in it.
js does not insert semicolon here, as line is ending with + (i.e 'incomplete expression'),
so ; there would be incorrect. (so working fine).

alert("Hello");
[1, 2].forEach(alert);
'Hello' alert will be shown, then '1' & '2' will be shown.

alert("Hello")
[1, 2].forEach(alert);
'Hello' alert will be shown, alert with not proper reading value will be shown.

here is how engine see it,
alert("Hello")[1, 2].forEach(alert);

--nested comments not supported
There may not be /*...*/ inside another /*...*/.

